---
layout: page
title: RoBioInfo 2023
description: "nf-core/sarek: a for germline and somatic variant calling pipeline"
importance: 3
year: 2023
category: talks
related_publications: hanssen2023scalable
my_date: "May 13, 2023"
location: Romania, Bukarest
event: Invited talk at the Romanian Bioinformatics Conference
slides: "https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vSg26JJHa5yRhbc42RwA5-xyjKryfMZyU3330C234bBoxwmHB2EoC0Y2kVVZP76A3YHjzJN6bVIVG3Y/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000"
---

**Abstract**

Variant calling studies often include large donor cohorts with dataset sizes varying widely for panel, whole-exome, and whole-genome-sequencing data. High-throughput, efficient, and reproducible software pipelines are needed to ensure the homogeneous processing across different compute infrastructures with affordable resource usage. We present nf-core/sarek 3.0 (https://github.com/nf-core/sarek), a pipeline for exploring single-nucleotide variants, structural variation, microsatellite instability, and copy-number alterations of germline, tumor-only, and tumor-normal pairs. The pipeline is part of the nf-core project, which provides peer-reviewed, reproducible, scalable, portable, and well-documented open-source Nextflow pipelines (https://nf-co.re/).
During the recent re-implementation, we reduced compute resources and improved data flow increasing turn-around times, which allowed us to reduce costs on commercial clouds by a third, facilitating the integration of publicly hosted data from repositories with in-house patient cohorts.
Other improvements include modularization of processes to easewhich is easing code maintainability and customization on the user-side, and a broader repertoire of available tools. Furthermore, the pipeline comes with a wide range of small CI tests on small datasets as well as integration tests on GiaB and SEQC2 data to ensure results integrity between releases.
We will showcase the technical developments in several projects from cancer research. We have processed 160 WGS germline samples to detect pre-leucemic changes, as well as 100 cholangiocarcinoma and 20 colorectal carcinoma panels for investigating the relationship of genomic variation to drug responsiveness.


